DM Proposal - Google

Susanna, Rada, and John

1 Introduction

2 Question

Do native translations of 'terrorist' return different image 
results on local Googles than searching with the English word 
'terrorist' at the same sites? What are the differences in 
results when those native translations are fed to Google.com and 
compared to the results for 'terrorist' there? To what extent do 
Spanish-language local Googles reflect their own locality versus 
the entire Spanish speaking web?

3 Method

First we gather results from queries in both Spanish and English 
in Google.es and Google.com:

• google.es: 'terrorista' / 'terrorist'

• google.com: 'terrorista' / 'terrorist'

Those results are compared and classified according to common 
criteria: mug shots, wanted lists, armed services, armed 
terrorists, results of terrorism, and humor. Furthermore, the 
percentage of images that are the exact same between queries will 
be recorded.

Then the same process is repeated for google.com.co (Colombia), 
google.com.ve (Venezuala), and google.mx (Mexico), searching in 
both English and Spanish.

Look at domains and whois information to determine the location 
of the information.

Construct the country list through some sensible means.

Reasons for our countries:

• Not enough local Google's in Arabic language space.

• Is the data about local terrorist groups? hosted on local 
  servers?

Cultural angle is:

visual representation of 'terrorist'

are the local terrorist groups represented in the top 30 image 
results? do cultural conceptions of terrorism fit with the 
outside analysis of the 'terrorist group list'?

4 Findings

English and Spanish search terms will return different results 
across all Googles. The English language results will be similar. 
Less intuitively, Spanish language queries will have roughly the 
same degree of similarity despite being run through localized 
Googles. Results will only differ (reflect locality) in images 
buried behnd the first page of results.

5 Discussion

